---
layout: post
title:      "Brief overview of the problem"
date:       2020-09-09 16:49:38 -0400
permalink:  brief_overview_of_the_problem
---




We are currently in the middle of a 6th mass extinction event.  Many experts say we are losing species at “around 1,000 times the natural extinction rate” (Poaching, Wildlife Trafficking and Security in Africa, pg.1).  Unlike past mass-extinction events, this one is almost entirely the work of one factor, humans.  Poaching and wildlife trafficking are the main causes of this crisis along with climate change, deforestation, and habitat loss.  The main demand of wildlife products come from China and Vietnam. The uses of these products range from pets and trophies to traditional medicine.  The attraction that this illegal activity has is its financial opportunity, especially to those living below the poverty line.  Poaching and trafficking of wildlife has also attracted attention from criminal enterprises and terror groups.  While more evidence is present linking wildlife poaching and trafficking to criminal syndicates rather than terrorist groups, it all has devastating effects, not only to the wildlife but to the local population and even national security.  There is a lack of data showing the exact revenue made form this illicit trade but UNEP and INTERPOL “places the trade’s value at anywhere between $7 – 23 billion per annum” (Poaching, Wildlife Trafficking and Security in Africa, pg.6).  it is currently stated the wildlife trafficking and poaching is the fourth largest form of criminal activity behind drug trafficking, counterfeit crimes and human trafficking.  With the lack of data it is hard to estimate its true effect it will have on the environment and regional and national stability.  For anyone interested in learning more about this problem should read POACHING, WILDLIFE TRAFFICKING AND SECURITY IN AFRICA.

# A solution

A solution that I think would be critical to saving these animals and preventing another mass-extinction, along with other issues related to this problem and something I am currently working on establishing is starting my own non-profit.  My vision would be to repopulate a national park or create one of my own.  The idea is, once the animals are in the park, to train the locals to protect and care for them which would also create jobs.  Most countries in Africa rely on these animals for revenue, which for some is the only source of income for the country.  Hopefully, this income would go toward the people and development projects, reducing the need for humanitarian assistance and eliminating poverty. Another big part of this plan would be community engagement to gain support.  This project would also address the land issues. For the animals to stay, the prey must have the food they need available to them and if the soil is not fertile enough to grow the food that is needed, they will not stick around.  One of the long-term goals of this is to create a self-sustaining predator-prey cycle.  Also, by implementing better soil practices and improving soil fertility will not only have a positive impact on climate change but will improve the opportunities to grow crops for consumption by locals or be sold, stimulating the economy, eliminating the need or excuse to poach wildlife for food.  This whole plan that I have and the impact I want it to have, all depend on one aspect: community support.  Wildlife poaching and the devastation it causes strips local identity and natural heritage from the communities and countries in Africa.  This problem will never go away, but that is no excuse to turn a blind eye and not help.



